

data types this are used to define varaibles in java folowing are the permitive data types 
int
float
double
char
boolean

5.write a p to find the sum of 2 number
6.wp to inter change 2 number
7. inter change 2 number without using 3rd varaible ic2
8.wp interchange 2 number without using temp and add and subcartion(hw)
9.sum of 2 number is 15  2nd is twice of first what is the number(hw)
10. sales man purchase 50caps at the rate of 500rs what will be the cost of 1 cap(hw)
11. sales man pirchase 100 bags at the cost of 1000 out of 100 bags 12 bags are damageded what is the cost of 1 bag(hw)
12. a sales man purchase 100 caps at the cost of 1000rs 10 caps are damaged and 200rs is used for food 300es for 
traveling what is the cost of 1 cap.(hw)



condition statements
java suppports 3 types of conditional statements 
if
for
switch
for every condition their will be a 2 possbilities true or fales. if the condition is true the first bock will be ecuqeted if the conditionis fales it will exceute the else part.

syntax
if(condition)
{
true
}
else
{
false
}

13. wp to find the greatest of 2 number
14. wp to check the give number is even or odd

hw 
15.wp to check leap year
16.wp to check the give number is positive or negaitive
17.wp to check is the user is eigible for driving licenses whoes age is 17 years

operators 
this are used to perfrom some operation on a operands for exmaple 3+5 3 and 5 are operands +is a operator following are the some of the operator supported by java
1.arthamatic operator : this operator are used to perfrom mathamatical operation + - / * = ,%.
2.comparsion operator : this operator are used to compare the values <,>,<=,>=,==,!=.
3.logical operators : this operator are used to combine more than one comparsion operators 
and(&&)
or(||)
not(!=,<>)
 and when all condition are true it will retrn true if any 1 condition fales it return fales.
 or when any 1 condition is true is true it return true when all condition become fales it return fales. not its a oppositie of and when all condition become fales it returns true if any 1 of condition is fales it return fales

18.wp to find greatest of 3 numbers
19. wp to display the following messages 
if a number divides by 3 display hello
if number divides by 5 diaplay hi
if number divides by 3 and 5 display hello hi
3,10,15

10.write a program to find the greatest of 5 number
21. write p to display the result with respect to the marks
if the marks is 35 to 50 display parse 
if the marks is 50 to 60 dispay 2nd class
if the makrs is 60to75 first pass
75to 100 distiction else fail
give marks is 45

22. wp to read 3 sides of rectsangle and display what type of rectangle it is

LOOP
to repate same statement again and again loops are used by using loops the same set of code can be excuted any number of times
following are the 3 different types of loops supported by java from jdk 1.8 onvards advance looping concept is used by using for each concept
for loop when we know the number of repetation we use for loop for loop is a entery control loop
which checks the cinditions first then the excution starts due this feature is called entery control loop
for loop take 3 parameters  first as start valeue or inital value second parametr as a conditon till the condition s true loop 
will exceute the movement condition false loop will be terminted 3rd as a incremant or decremant

for(start ; condition ;incr/decr)
{
TRUE
------
} 
FALSE -> EXIT

23.wp to display the number for 1 to 10
24. wp to display the numbers from 20 to 10
25. wp to display all even number from 1 to 20
26. wp to display the sum of 1 to 10
27. wp to display numbers from 1 to 30 which are divisible by 3
28. wp to display the following messages for the range 1 to 30
if the number divideds by 3 display hi
if no divides by 5 display hello
if a number divides by 3 and 5 dispay hi hello


pattren
29. wp to pattern 
*
**
***
30. 
1
12
123
12
1

 1
323

  1
 121
12321
 121
  1

WHILE LOOP 
its a entery contorled loop when we dont know the number of repetations we use this loop in this loop intialization condition incerment or derement are given in seaparet lines first we initiazie the value  then this value will be checked with a condition if the condition is true it will excute the code else it will terminate 

SYNTAX 
Start
while(condition)
{

incr/decr
}

31. wp to display the number from 1 to 10 using while loop
32. wp to read the value from user and display
33. wp to read a 3 digit number and display indivial digits
34. wp to read a number and reverse it
35. wp to read a number and check is it a palindrome
36. wp to read a number and find the sum of indival number
do while loop
its a exit control loop this loop will excute altaest once irespective of errors following example 

37.wp to display all prime number from 1 to 50
38. wp to display fibanoci series upto 15
39. wp to check arm strong (the cube of indivial digits is the same number )
40. wp to read a number and check is it a prime
41.
42.create a class for to store staff information create 2 objects and show the information


contustrs
are the spical type of methods by using a constructor we can assine a delfault for member variable constructor will intilizing the objects in constructor their 2 types 
deafult construcotr 
user defined  constructor


deafult construcotr :
this is created by the jvm at the time of complieation jvm checks for the constructor if the constructor is not defined it will create a constructor by assing a defualt vlaues the following chat show the deafult value of datatypes
int=0
float or double=0.0
string or char= NULL
Boolen=false
43.deafult bvale

user defined constructor :
this are created by user accroding the requriments in user defined constructor their 2 types 
1.default
2. paramatrised

1. default: when we default constructor is created to strore user defined defualt constructor user can assine their own values for the varilaves
2. paramatrised : in paramatrised constructor it is going to take parameters and this paramers will be assinged to the locail vairables

44.write a program to demonstarte user defined constructor 
45.write a program to demonstarte user user defined constructor 
46hw.wp to check is the givien number palidrom or not
47hw.create a array of size 5 store values in it display the second highest no?

Inhertance:
transfer of charaterctics from 1 class to another class is called inhertance following are the different types of inhertances supported by java 

1. simple inhertance: in it only 2 classes will be particpated first class is paraent class 2nd clASS is child class to inhert the features from 1 class to other class we use extenteds key word following example demostartes simple inhertance

48.simple inhertance

2.multileve inhertance:
first class transfer its charaterctics to the second class 2nd to 3rd ,3rd to 4th and so no.
following expample demonstarte multilevel inhertance
49.multileve inhertance:

hierarchial inheritance:
in hierarchial inheritance a single class tranfer its charatericts to a 2 or more class in hierarchial inheritance only 1 super class all other class are sub class following examples demostrate hierarchial inheritance
50.hierarchial inheritance

multiple inheratiance : java doest not supports multiple inheratiance in mutiple inheratiance 2 or more classes will
 inherat the charaterics to a single class this type of inheratance is not supported by java to give a support for 
multiple inhertance java introduced interfaces 

interfaces can be called to a inherated class a single class can inhert any number of interfaces  in


interface:
its a incmplet class its desgined to achive multipe in hertances in java following are the some of the key featuers of 
interfaces 
1. interfaces are defined using the key word interface. its a incompete class interfaces can define only the singnature of 
of method or interface are going to define method names this methods will be implemented or defined in a inherated class
interfaces cannot be excueted 
2. in it we cant define varaibles 
3. in it what ever the methods we define all the methods must be implemented in a inherated class  
51.overloading


52.interfaces


packages :
it is a collection classes , interfaces and package itself
by using packages we can group inter realated classes and interfaces following are the advantages of packages 
1.groups inter related class ,faster to access class and interfaces , only requrid related class are loaded or imported for a program,
we can use the same file name in different packages by perfixing the package name and a class name we can access the files creation of packages

1.first line of a program must be package defination
2.followed by package defination import statment can be added all classes and interfaces in package are defined  as a public  varaiables 
must be defined as a public 
3. program will be complied using commond javac -d . filename.java
javac for compliation -d is used to create a directory by package name . is used specifiy the present working directory filename.java the file which contains the package defination

53. wp to demonstrate


system defined packages 
this packages readly availavble when we install a java software following are the some of the main built in packages 
1. java.lan: this is a default package for java all class and interfaces of this clas can be acccessed without importing the package by default these class can be accessed

string: this class is introced to work with string related operations this class as follwing methods to mainpult the string data
1. equals : its used to compare 2 strings with a case
2.equals ingnore case: its used to compare 2 strings without the case
3. length: its used to find the number of charaters in a string 
4. toupper case : converts a string to upper case
5. toLower case: converts a string to lower case 
6. ends wiht: to ending check charaters 
7. starts wiht: to check starting char or a string
8. index of : to check index of a specific charater
9. char @: to know a charater at a specific index

54.write program to desmostrate string function
55.write program to desmostrate string function


math class this class is introduced to work with mathamitcal operations follwing are the some of the methods which are used to manupliate math data
1.ceil: its used to convert a fartiona value to its nearst lowest intger
2. floor: it used to covert a fartion value to its nearest lowest intger
3. round: its used to convert a fartion value to its nearest integer wiht respect to the fration if the value ranges from 0 to 4 coverts lowest integer if the value ranes from5 to 9 coverts to highest interger
4. pow: to find the power of number 
5. sqrt: to find square root of a number
6. abs: to covert negative to positive

56. writep to demostrate mathdemo

string buffer: this class is a enhacment of string class its stores the data in form of array this class as the following methods to manuplate string of a data 
1.append: this used to add the data at the last
2.insert: its used to add a new data at a specific location or a index number 
3.revrse:its used to revser the entire string buffer
4. replace: its used to replace a sting or charaters of data from a specific location or with a specifi word 

57.follwing exmaple demonastrate string buffer
wrapper class: this class are introduced to work with basic data types in java premintive datatype are supported for permitive data types we dont have methods to overcome this problem java introduced wrapper class in wrapper classes we are going to define enchanced class from basic data types following chart shows the list of basic datatypes and wrapper class
int- Int
float-Float

58.wp to demonastrate commond line parameters 

59. wp to demonastrate wrapper class to convert a string data to number.

Exception:
AS 2 TYPES COMPILE TIME AND RUNTIME ERROR

possibilty of try and catch ;
try
{
}
catch{}

try{}catch{}catch{}

try{}final{}

try{}catch{}final{}

62.try with multiple catches

63.therad creation and excution

Keywords:
1.join:this method is used to add a new thread to process when we use this method it will wait till the active thread completes its process the moment it completes it will join to the processos  area and timing will reschudeld 

2.yeild: it s also used to add new thread to process area it will stop the process forceablely and adds a new thread

3. synchronizaton:is the key word when it is used with a class thread becomes the highliest priorty higher than 10 when were the synchronies thread enters to the process area it will ask all threads to leave the process area and enter to the block state till it completes it work it not allow any threads to join or enter the process area once it completes it work it will send notify all method to its waiting threads with the help of notify all method all waiting thread will activate and try to join the process area this may cause a rest state which may reduces the excution speed.
4. deadlock: when 2 synchornize thread try to access the process area at the same time processor is not able to dessied to whom service will be provided in such sutitvation processor will block
 both the threads and it will become ideal and it iwll not resopnd to nay of the thread. this process or this state is called block state.
5. thread group: when group of threads are written to perform a single it said to be a thread groups are created for chain creation activities by using thread group we can control a group excution.

util package:
java.util.package this package is used to access the system class and collection class one of the system class is data its used to access or to retrive the data from system tree  by defult it going to read the system data and time to read system data and time it as following methods get data get mouth, get year, get day ,get hours get minutes. to change the system data and time set mehtod are used set data set mouth set year ,set data, set hours .

64. wp to demonstarte a data class 
65. wp to retrive the data from date
66. wp to display the the date after 45days 
67. wp to display day of week in words

collection class
one of the tradinational collection class is arrays in collection classes we are going to store a data this data is avaiblae only in a runtime array is a collection class but it as some darwbacks 
1.its a collection os homogines data 
2.array size is fixed we connot modify the array size in runtime to over come this java introduced danamic collection classes 

danynicm collection classes when we define the object of danyamic class its size will be zero  when we add the elements its size will be increased when we remove the elements its size will be decarsed this is the one of the advance feature which will save the memory and data
following are the some of the main danymic classes 

1. set: its a danymic class it can store any type of data theis is no index numbering and adding and removeing of data is done by using value name1
2.list : its imporoved version of array list its store and retrive the data by using index number following example demostrate array list

68. demostrate array list


linklist:
its improved version of array list with a extra features like add first, add last, remove first, and remove last
following example demostartes the linkedlist 
69. example demostartes the linkedlist 

vector:
its a danamic collection class it as 2 differernt constructors deflaut and a paramatriesd 
deflaut : when we create a vector object by using a deflaut contructor it will give a vector with a capacity 10 the capacity means avalible when we add new element vector size will be increased  when vector size equals to capacity and we try to add new values vector will increase its capacity by 10 more values this process will be continous 

70. wp to demostarte a deflaut vector 

Paramatrised vector: in paramatrised vector constroutor is going to take 2 paramenters first parameters as a initinal capacity 2nd parametrs as load factor or value when we create object the vector capacity will be the first parameter value when we add values its size will be incerased when size equals to capacity and we try to add new value it will increase its capacity by using load factor. (2nd paramenters) this process will be contiunios following example demostrates the paramtersied consturot

71.wp to demostarte a Paramatrised vector 

STACK:
its a single sided collection class one side of contair is closed single side act as input amd output to add the elements push method is used to remove the elements pop method is used following example demostrate stack class

72.following example demostrate stack class

auto boxing: in auto boxing complier automaticaly converts permitive types into their correspoding wrapper classes this will be help full when we are assing a value to an object 

unboxing: in unboxing the opposite process will be done it convert wrapper classes to basic data types with the help of this java achived 100% oop concpet from jdk 1.6 

73. autoboxing 
74. enum

random class : it isintrouded to genrate the random numbers we have method nextInt which takes the a parameter which tells the range of random number following example demostarte random number genaration

75.random number
 
scanner this class is used to read the data from user this class as different types of methods to read different type of  data  for example read line , read float, read double

76.scanner

System
	in red
	out print, println
	err -printStackTraceErr


java.io: this package this package is introduced to work with inputa nd output operations  to read and write data number of classes aare introduced  one of the super most class is system this class as 3 sub classes system.in , system.out, system.err .

system.in this class is used to read the data from the user 👤  read methods is used to read the data the from 👤 user read method reads one charater at a time ⌚  by default it reads the data from keyboard it does not support for networking

System.out : this class is used to display data on screen it as 2 methods print and println print will display on the same line println will dislpay in a new line following example demostrate the  system class 

77.javaio



Data encryption 
this class is introduced to read a data line by line to read data readline method is introducdes 

78.following example demonstrates data input Stream 


Stream: a continuous follow of data is called stream. when we read a data it will be input stream when we send data out it will be a output stream by using this 2 classes the new class are introduced to read and write different types of data folloing are the some of the classes 
1.first datainput stream 
2. file inputstream
3.buffered inputstream

DataOutput Stream
1.file outputStream
2.Buffered OutputStream

file: its a super most class of file System the constructor ofthis class takes a file name or it may take the path or url of a file following example demostrates reading the contents of a folder in this program we are going to pass the addresss of the folder whoes file contents we want to read list is a method which reads all the file names of a spcified folder a store in a array length is a method which returns the number of fies in a folder 

79.fileList

FILEOUTPUT STEAM: this is a combination of file and outputStream by using this class we can create a file this file is created physically on a prsent working directory

80.filecreation

file reading to read a file file input stream class is introduced the construtor of this class takes a parameteras a file name this file name will be stored in a object first we are going to read the number of charaters in a file with a help of available methods which retuns the number of charaters with a blank space which is used for file termination with the help of read method we are going to read chartere by charter from  a file first 

81.filereading

Networking

when we connect to 2 or more system to idetify the system we may use mac name or Ip address ip address is a 
one of the fixble way of idetifying a machine in a network ip address is a combination of 4 numbers seapareted by a dot 
in each position we can have a value from 0 to 255  first 3 position of ip address is calle or a network address or server address
form each position of ip address we connect 256 machines next port when we install any software or server it will be installed on spicfic location 
this memory location is called 	port number folloing are the some of the popluar server and port numbers 
1. oracle: 8080
2.tomact: 8080
3.weblogic: 7000/7001/7007
4.asp:80
5.servlet: 80
6. mysql:3306
postgrase: 4321
django: 4200


Socket: it is a combination of ip address and port number mainly to types of Sockets client Socket and server Socket
1.client Socket: it takes 2 parameteras ip address AND  port number ip address is used to tell where exactly the server is placed 
port will tell where my server is running 
2.server Socket: it takes 1 parameter that is port number this tells server is avaiable in this port 